# PythonistaCovidDanceMy project was done in Pycharm. My python project involves developing a fitness regimen after having Covid. I realized that coding about an exercise program after Covid totally changed how I felt about the process because I finally was researching why there were valid reasons why my body had setbacks (underreported random waves of symptoms) instead of blaming myself. I also realized I denied to myself I was still having health problems and I never talked to anyone about not recovering totally from covid without feeling I'm boring them or making myself feel guilty. Coding gave me a necessary space to figure out my own answers and possibly help others who are struggling but prefer not to to talk about it.
Although I am an environmental scientist, I am also a certified group fitness (AFAA and NASM certified) instructor. As someone who was training for my third marathon at the time I contracted covid, I assumed I would quickly find a fitness regimen. I was shocked at the lack of information for people who have lingering symptoms and wanted to get back in shape. I wanted to use my coding project to inspire myself and others trying to get back to peak health after covid. I chose dancing because it has the necessary emotional component (I'm certified in the Lablast ballroom fitness program) that is helpful from those trying to deal with decreased health especailly when experiencing underreported random waves of negative symptoms after Covid. Dancing also has different styles with different bpm (beats per minute) and my code can also educate people on styles and the slower bpm they can utilize so they can safely exercise. I satisfied the following components: 1. I built a conversion tool that satisfies the requirement of calculating and displaying data based on an external factor. I used the current date, and then displayed how many days remaining until some future date. I used a week in the future as the end date because that is a conventional time for a person to monitor exercise progress. I wanted to use that also in the second requirement (a calorie counter of burnt calories dancing.) 2. I also satisfied the requirement of creating and calling at least 3 functions or methods, at least one of which must return a value that is used somewhere else in the code. I determined how to calculate calories. I then calculated the calorie count for one week. 3. I put in affirming exercise messages from someone who is recovering from covid to satisfy analyzing text and determining how many words were in each sentence in a paragraph. 4. I satisfied the requirement of creating a dictionary or list, populate it with several values, retrieve at least one value, and use it in your program. I created a dictionary game that listed dance styles and beats per minute. One dictionary had slower dance styles. The second dictionary had faster dance styles. I then had an intersection of the dictionaries of the more intermediate dance styles. I used the three intermediate dance styles in a game. 5. This option of selecting three dances program satisfied the requirement of implementing a “master loop” console application where the user can repeatedly enter commands/perform actions. I created a computer generated computer game to entertain players with the this intersection of dance styles (intermediate dance styles). I asked the user to chose from these three dance styles. The computer (the instructor) also chose a style. The player (dancer) gets to choose if the random pick is selected as the same dance style. 6. I also built a conversion tool that satisfies a requirement that converts the user input of one type kg to another type (lbs) and then displays calories because I used calories in another requirement.

7.   I  used tkinter to use calculate burnt calories based on weight, heart rate, duration, sex, and minutes. Note: I'm unsure if it certifies a master loope with several actions and sometimes have problems getting the data imported correctly.  If it does work, I might make dance program into satisfying class requirement).
Requirements not used: Create a class, then create at least one object of that class and populate it with data. The value of at least one object must be used somewhere in your code/ I might make dance style program converted to this requirement.

Implement a log that records errors, invalid inputs, or other important events and writes them to a text file Read data from an external file, such as text, JSON, CSV, etc and use that data in your application. NOTE: Tried Kaggle to import exercise data so might include if I can work on further and include.
Implement a regular expression (regex) to ensure a field either a phone number or an email address is always stored and displayed in the same format Connect to an external/3rd party API and read data into your app Visualize data in a graph, chart, or other visual representation of data NOTE: Tried to work on this and it is work in progress!

Correct use of Git/Github and commits: I followed the correct steps in the project guidelines to create and name the github repository that would reflect a distinct repository. I then used the proper guidelines to initialize the project and add files using git bash and the command line. I then far exceeded the minimum number of commits needed to pass.


